readme.src.md, before:


This is a python library for pattern cutting.

## `Vector` class

A class for 2d cartesian coordinates. Its used for point coordinates and also for 2d vectors

```code
from src.geometry.Vector import Vector

origin = Vector(0,0)
origin.label = "Origin"

```

You can use the render function to generate an SVG representation of the geometry

```code
from render import render
render(origin)
```

## Shape

A `Shape` object is defined by multiple points which are joined by line segemnts to create a complicated line or shape.

```code
from src.geometry.Shape import Shape

square = Shape([
  Vector(0, 0),
  Vector(100, 0),
  Vector(100, 100),
  Vector(0, 100),
  Vector(0, 0)]
).with_label("a square").with_style("polygon")

render(square)
```

Using the `style` property, a polyline can be rendered as many different kinds of shapes.

```code
from layout import topToBottom

shape = Shape([Vector(0, 0), Vector(100, 50), Vector(200, -50), Vector(300, 0)])

render(
  *topToBottom(
    shape.with_style("line").with_label("line"),
    shape.with_style("dashed").with_label("dashed"),
    shape.with_style("arrow").with_label("arrow"),
    shape.with_style("dashed_arrow").with_label("dashed_arrow"),
    shape.with_style("pointset").with_label("pointset"),
    shape.with_style("polygon").with_label("polygon"),
    shape.with_style("tape").with_label("tape"),
    shape.with_style("ruler").with_label("ruler")
  )
)
```

You can draw measurement markers along a polyline:

```code
render(
  square,
  *square.evenlySpacedMeasurements()
)
```

Or automatically detect corners:
```code
corners = square.corners()

render(
  square,
  *[corner.with_label("Here is a corner!") for corner in corners]
)
```

You can slice out a certain portion of a line:
```code
from layout import process
from src.geometry.Group import Group

P = square.at(25).point.with_label("P")
Q = square.at(175).point.with_label("Q")

render(
  *process(
    Group(
      square,
      P,
      Q,
    ),

    Group(
      square.slice(25, 175),
      P, Q
    )
  )
)
```

The circle class can be used to generate regular polygons with so many sides they look like a circle:

```code
from src.geometry.Circle import Circle

circle = Circle(Vector(0, 0), 100)
triangle = circle.polyline(3)
hexagon = circle.polyline(6)
almostCircle = circle.polyline(50)

from layout import sideBySide
render(*sideBySide(triangle, hexagon, almostCircle))
```

We can put this together to get good approximations of measurements along a curve:
```code
arc = circle.polyline(100).slice(0, 150)
render(
  arc,
  *arc.evenlySpacedMeasurements()
  )
```

## Bezier Curves

```code
from src.geometry.Shape import dashed
from src.geometry.bezier import BezierCurve
p0 = Vector(0,0).with_label("p0")
p1 = Vector(0, 50).with_label("p1")
p2 = Vector(50, 50).with_label("p2")
p3 = Vector(50, 100).with_label("p3")


mycurve = BezierCurve(p0, p1, p2, p3)

render(
  mycurve.demo()
  )
```

### Interpolating a `Shape` with Bezier Curves

```code
myshape = Shape([Vector(0,0), Vector(0, 200), Vector(200,250), Vector(250, 150), Vector(300 , 300)])

render(
  myshape.with_style("dashed"),
  myshape.interpolate(),
)
```

This makes a lot of points apear, so it might be a good idea to resample the curve at lower resolution:

```code
interpolated = myshape.interpolate()
downsampled = interpolated.resample(25)
render(
  *topToBottom(
    interpolated.with_style("pointset"),
    downsampled.with_style("pointset").with_label("Re-sampled")
  )
)
```

Demonstrating different curve speeds
```code
gen = [myshape]
for i in range(0, 20):
  next = myshape.interpolate((i+1) / 4)
  gen.append(next)

render(*gen)
```

## Finding the closest point on a polyline

We can find the closest point on a polyline to any given coordinate:
```code
from src.geometry.Shape import dashed_arrow
shape = arc
X = Vector(90, 100)
Y = shape.closestPoint(X)

render(
  shape,
  X.with_label("X"),
  Y.with_label("Y"),
  dashed_arrow(X, Y)
)
```

You can use closest points in other methods too, such as `slice`

```code
shape = arc
P = Vector(90, 100).with_label("P")
Q = Vector(100, 0).with_label("Q")
sliced = shape.slice(P, Q)
render(
  *process(
    Group(
      P,
      Q,
      dashed_arrow(P, shape.at(P).point),
      shape.with_label("Original"),
    ),
    Group(
      sliced.with_label("sliced"),
      *sliced.points, P, Q
    )
  )
  )
```


## Replacing a section of a shape

Here are two shapes
```code
a = Shape([Vector(-100, 200), Vector(200, -100)])
b = arc

render(a.with_label("a simple shape"), b.with_label("replacement"))
```

We can replace a region of one with the other

```code
render(a.replace(b))
```

## Tweening between shapes

Tweening lets you morph one shape smoothly into another:

```code
from src.geometry.tween import tween, tween_demo

a = Shape([Vector(-100, 200), Vector(200, -100)])
b = arc

render(tween_demo(a, b))
```

A circle becoming a square,
```code
render(tween_demo(square, circle.polyline(100)))
```

## Adding darts
```code
shape = Shape([Vector(0,0), Vector(100, 0)])
shape.addDart(Vector(50, 0), 50, 20)
render(shape)
```

```code
shape = Shape([Vector(0,0), Vector(0, 100)])
shape.addDart(Vector(0, 50), 50, 20)
render(shape)
```

## Die Lemma dress block

One of the main applications of this library is to create outfits for East London drag queen [Die Lemma](https://www.instagram.com/die.lemma/).

A dress block for Die was created and digitised into this library:

```code
from DieLemmaDressBlock import DieLemmaDressBlock

render(DieLemmaDressBlock)
```

Drawing parallels to a complex polyline:

```code
render(
  DieLemmaDressBlock,
  DieLemmaDressBlock.parallel(50),
  *[dashed_arrow(P, Q) for P,Q in zip(DieLemmaDressBlock.points, DieLemmaDressBlock.parallel(50).points)],
  *DieLemmaDressBlock.points
)
```

or drawing inside the shape instead of outside,

```code
render(
  DieLemmaDressBlock,
  DieLemmaDressBlock.parallel(-25),
  *[dashed_arrow(P, Q) for P,Q in zip(DieLemmaDressBlock.points, DieLemmaDressBlock.parallel(-25).points)],
  *DieLemmaDressBlock.points
)
```

## Winnifred Aldrich pattern blocks

One application of this library is quickly producing pattern blocks from Winnfred Aldrich's book. To do that, we have to be able to use describe body measurements:

```code
from src.sizing.BodyMeasurements import example_body_measurements
print(example_body_measurements)
```

### Trouser block

```code
from TheClassicTailoredTrouserBlock import TheClassicTailoredTrouserBlock

render(TheClassicTailoredTrouserBlock())
```

### Skirt block

```code
from aldrich.tailored_skirt_block import tailored_skirt_block

render(tailored_skirt_block())
```

## Working in 3D

Turn a 2d shape into 3d one (and back again to render it):

```code
import numpy as np
square3d = square.to_3D()

render(
  *[
    square3d.rotate(pitch=angle).isometric() for angle in np.arange(0, 6.28, 0.3)
    ]
)
```

Tweening radially,

```code
shape_1 = Shape([Vector(0,0), Vector(50, -100)])
shape_2 = Shape([Vector(0,0), Vector(50, -15), Vector(50, -200)])

render(*[
  tween(shape_1, shape_2, phase).to_3D().rotate(pitch=phase * 3.14).isometric() for phase in np.arange(0, 1, .05)
])
```

## Making a skirt for myself

I would like a skirt. To get one, I've measured my body a little bit:

```code
joelle_waist = 725
joelle_hips = 900
joelle_waist_to_hips = 265
```

I've also decided a few dimensions of the skirt I'd like to make:

```code
skirt_length_below_the_hips = 380
skirt_bottom_circumference = 1200
```

Here is  a graph plotting the circumference of the skirt over height:

```code
from src.geometry.Shape import measurement_from_y_axis
skirt_circumference_graph = Shape()

origin = Vector(0,0)
waist_point = Vector(joelle_waist, 0)
hips_point = Vector(joelle_hips, -joelle_waist_to_hips)
hem_point = Vector(skirt_bottom_circumference, -joelle_waist_to_hips - skirt_length_below_the_hips)

skirt_circumference_graph.lineTo(waist_point)
skirt_circumference_graph.lineTo(hips_point)
skirt_circumference_graph.lineTo(hem_point)

render(
  skirt_circumference_graph.close_against_y_axis(),
  origin,
  measurement_from_y_axis(waist_point),
  measurement_from_y_axis(hips_point),
  measurement_from_y_axis(hem_point)
  )

```

This is the circumference of the skirt over elevation. But I think what I need (in order to get the scrolled hem I'm looking for) is the radius. To keep it simple I'll imagine the skirt as a circlular prism with radius varying across its length.

```code
import math
skirt_radius_graph = Shape([Vector(p.x / (2*math.pi),  p.y) for p in skirt_circumference_graph.points])
render(skirt_radius_graph)
```

This is a reasonable approximation for the silhouette of the skirt.

Now I'll add the scroll

```code
skirt_radius_graph.continue_with_arc(175, 2*math.pi)
render(skirt_radius_graph)
```

Now I've found a silhouette I like, I'll unwrap this by length onto the y-axis.

```code
final_radius_graph = Shape()
for w in np.arange(0, skirt_radius_graph.length, 10):
  x = skirt_radius_graph.pointAlong(w).x
  p = Vector(x, -w)
  final_radius_graph.lineTo(p)
render(final_radius_graph.close_against_y_axis())
```

Next we transform this back into a circumference graph

```code
final_circumference_graph = Shape(
  [Vector(x = p.x * 2*math.pi, y=p.y) for p in final_radius_graph.points]
)

render(final_circumference_graph.close_against_y_axis())
```

Wow mad. Finally, lets subdivide this into 10 pattern pieces:

```code
pattern_piece = final_circumference_graph.close_against_y_axis().subdivide_by_width(10)
render(pattern_piece)
```

Now I just need to add some seam & hem allowances. While I'm at it, I'll make a pattern for the boning channel.

```code
from src.geometry.Shape import rectangle

boning = rectangle(pattern_piece.x_center() - 6, pattern_piece.bottom, 12, pattern_piece.height).with_label("12mm boning channel")

render(
  *sideBySide(
    Group(
      pattern_piece,
      pattern_piece.sides()[0].allowance(-20),
      pattern_piece.sides()[2].allowance(-20),
      pattern_piece.vertical_center_line(),
      *pattern_piece.numbered_corners()
    ),
    Group(
      boning,
      boning.allowance(-12)
    )
  )
)
```

Commit message:

Sketch the bulbous skirt in 3d

readme.src.md, after:


This is a python library for pattern cutting.

## `Vector` class

A class for 2d cartesian coordinates. Its used for point coordinates and also for 2d vectors

```code
from src.geometry.Vector import Vector

origin = Vector(0,0)
origin.label = "Origin"

```

You can use the render function to generate an SVG representation of the geometry

```code
from render import render
render(origin)
```

## Shape

A `Shape` object is defined by multiple points which are joined by line segemnts to create a complicated line or shape.

```code
from src.geometry.Shape import Shape

square = Shape([
  Vector(0, 0),
  Vector(100, 0),
  Vector(100, 100),
  Vector(0, 100),
  Vector(0, 0)]
).with_label("a square").with_style("polygon")

render(square)
```

Using the `style` property, a polyline can be rendered as many different kinds of shapes.

```code
from layout import topToBottom

shape = Shape([Vector(0, 0), Vector(100, 50), Vector(200, -50), Vector(300, 0)])

render(
  *topToBottom(
    shape.with_style("line").with_label("line"),
    shape.with_style("dashed").with_label("dashed"),
    shape.with_style("arrow").with_label("arrow"),
    shape.with_style("dashed_arrow").with_label("dashed_arrow"),
    shape.with_style("pointset").with_label("pointset"),
    shape.with_style("polygon").with_label("polygon"),
    shape.with_style("tape").with_label("tape"),
    shape.with_style("ruler").with_label("ruler")
  )
)
```

You can draw measurement markers along a polyline:

```code
render(
  square,
  *square.evenlySpacedMeasurements()
)
```

Or automatically detect corners:
```code
corners = square.corners()

render(
  square,
  *[corner.with_label("Here is a corner!") for corner in corners]
)
```

You can slice out a certain portion of a line:
```code
from layout import process
from src.geometry.Group import Group

P = square.at(25).point.with_label("P")
Q = square.at(175).point.with_label("Q")

render(
  *process(
    Group(
      square,
      P,
      Q,
    ),

    Group(
      square.slice(25, 175),
      P, Q
    )
  )
)
```

The circle class can be used to generate regular polygons with so many sides they look like a circle:

```code
from src.geometry.Circle import Circle

circle = Circle(Vector(0, 0), 100)
triangle = circle.polyline(3)
hexagon = circle.polyline(6)
almostCircle = circle.polyline(50)

from layout import sideBySide
render(*sideBySide(triangle, hexagon, almostCircle))
```

We can put this together to get good approximations of measurements along a curve:
```code
arc = circle.polyline(100).slice(0, 150)
render(
  arc,
  *arc.evenlySpacedMeasurements()
  )
```

## Bezier Curves

```code
from src.geometry.Shape import dashed
from src.geometry.bezier import BezierCurve
p0 = Vector(0,0).with_label("p0")
p1 = Vector(0, 50).with_label("p1")
p2 = Vector(50, 50).with_label("p2")
p3 = Vector(50, 100).with_label("p3")


mycurve = BezierCurve(p0, p1, p2, p3)

render(
  mycurve.demo()
  )
```

### Interpolating a `Shape` with Bezier Curves

```code
myshape = Shape([Vector(0,0), Vector(0, 200), Vector(200,250), Vector(250, 150), Vector(300 , 300)])

render(
  myshape.with_style("dashed"),
  myshape.interpolate(),
)
```

This makes a lot of points apear, so it might be a good idea to resample the curve at lower resolution:

```code
interpolated = myshape.interpolate()
downsampled = interpolated.resample(25)
render(
  *topToBottom(
    interpolated.with_style("pointset"),
    downsampled.with_style("pointset").with_label("Re-sampled")
  )
)
```

Demonstrating different curve speeds
```code
gen = [myshape]
for i in range(0, 20):
  next = myshape.interpolate((i+1) / 4)
  gen.append(next)

render(*gen)
```

## Finding the closest point on a polyline

We can find the closest point on a polyline to any given coordinate:
```code
from src.geometry.Shape import dashed_arrow
shape = arc
X = Vector(90, 100)
Y = shape.closestPoint(X)

render(
  shape,
  X.with_label("X"),
  Y.with_label("Y"),
  dashed_arrow(X, Y)
)
```

You can use closest points in other methods too, such as `slice`

```code
shape = arc
P = Vector(90, 100).with_label("P")
Q = Vector(100, 0).with_label("Q")
sliced = shape.slice(P, Q)
render(
  *process(
    Group(
      P,
      Q,
      dashed_arrow(P, shape.at(P).point),
      shape.with_label("Original"),
    ),
    Group(
      sliced.with_label("sliced"),
      *sliced.points, P, Q
    )
  )
  )
```


## Replacing a section of a shape

Here are two shapes
```code
a = Shape([Vector(-100, 200), Vector(200, -100)])
b = arc

render(a.with_label("a simple shape"), b.with_label("replacement"))
```

We can replace a region of one with the other

```code
render(a.replace(b))
```

## Tweening between shapes

Tweening lets you morph one shape smoothly into another:

```code
from src.geometry.tween import tween, tween_demo

a = Shape([Vector(-100, 200), Vector(200, -100)])
b = arc

render(tween_demo(a, b))
```

A circle becoming a square,
```code
render(tween_demo(square, circle.polyline(100)))
```

## Adding darts
```code
shape = Shape([Vector(0,0), Vector(100, 0)])
shape.addDart(Vector(50, 0), 50, 20)
render(shape)
```

```code
shape = Shape([Vector(0,0), Vector(0, 100)])
shape.addDart(Vector(0, 50), 50, 20)
render(shape)
```

## Die Lemma dress block

One of the main applications of this library is to create outfits for East London drag queen [Die Lemma](https://www.instagram.com/die.lemma/).

A dress block for Die was created and digitised into this library:

```code
from DieLemmaDressBlock import DieLemmaDressBlock

render(DieLemmaDressBlock)
```

Drawing parallels to a complex polyline:

```code
render(
  DieLemmaDressBlock,
  DieLemmaDressBlock.parallel(50),
  *[dashed_arrow(P, Q) for P,Q in zip(DieLemmaDressBlock.points, DieLemmaDressBlock.parallel(50).points)],
  *DieLemmaDressBlock.points
)
```

or drawing inside the shape instead of outside,

```code
render(
  DieLemmaDressBlock,
  DieLemmaDressBlock.parallel(-25),
  *[dashed_arrow(P, Q) for P,Q in zip(DieLemmaDressBlock.points, DieLemmaDressBlock.parallel(-25).points)],
  *DieLemmaDressBlock.points
)
```

## Winnifred Aldrich pattern blocks

One application of this library is quickly producing pattern blocks from Winnfred Aldrich's book. To do that, we have to be able to use describe body measurements:

```code
from src.sizing.BodyMeasurements import example_body_measurements
print(example_body_measurements)
```

### Trouser block

```code
from TheClassicTailoredTrouserBlock import TheClassicTailoredTrouserBlock

render(TheClassicTailoredTrouserBlock())
```

### Skirt block

```code
from aldrich.tailored_skirt_block import tailored_skirt_block

render(tailored_skirt_block())
```

## Working in 3D

Turn a 2d shape into 3d one (and back again to render it):

```code
import numpy as np
square3d = square.to_3D()

render(
  *[
    square3d.rotate(pitch=angle).isometric() for angle in np.arange(0, 6.28, 0.3)
    ]
)
```

Tweening radially,

```code
shape_1 = Shape([Vector(0,0), Vector(50, -100)])
shape_2 = Shape([Vector(0,0), Vector(50, -15), Vector(50, -200)])

render(*[
  tween(shape_1, shape_2, phase).to_3D().rotate(pitch=phase * 3.14).isometric() for phase in np.arange(0, 1, .05)
])
```

## Making a skirt for myself

I would like a skirt. To get one, I've measured my body a little bit:

```code
joelle_waist = 725
joelle_hips = 900
joelle_waist_to_hips = 265
```

I've also decided a few dimensions of the skirt I'd like to make:

```code
skirt_length_below_the_hips = 380
skirt_bottom_circumference = 1200
```

Here is  a graph plotting the circumference of the skirt over height:

```code
from src.geometry.Shape import measurement_from_y_axis
skirt_circumference_graph = Shape()

origin = Vector(0,0)
waist_point = Vector(joelle_waist, 0)
hips_point = Vector(joelle_hips, -joelle_waist_to_hips)
hem_point = Vector(skirt_bottom_circumference, -joelle_waist_to_hips - skirt_length_below_the_hips)

skirt_circumference_graph.lineTo(waist_point)
skirt_circumference_graph.lineTo(hips_point)
skirt_circumference_graph.lineTo(hem_point)

render(
  skirt_circumference_graph.close_against_y_axis(),
  origin,
  measurement_from_y_axis(waist_point),
  measurement_from_y_axis(hips_point),
  measurement_from_y_axis(hem_point)
  )

```

This is the circumference of the skirt over elevation. But I think what I need (in order to get the scrolled hem I'm looking for) is the radius. To keep it simple I'll imagine the skirt as a circlular prism with radius varying across its length.

```code
import math
skirt_radius_graph = Shape([Vector(p.x / (2*math.pi),  p.y) for p in skirt_circumference_graph.points])
render(skirt_radius_graph)
```

This is a reasonable approximation for the silhouette of the skirt.

Now I'll add the scroll

```code
skirt_radius_graph.continue_with_arc(175, 2*math.pi)
render(skirt_radius_graph)
```

Here's what it should look like in 3d:

```code
render(*[
  skirt_radius_graph.to_3D().rotate(pitch=angle).isometric() for angle in np.arange(0, math.pi*2, .1)
])
```

Now I've found a silhouette I like, I'll unwrap this by length onto the y-axis.

```code
final_radius_graph = Shape()
for w in np.arange(0, skirt_radius_graph.length, 10):
  x = skirt_radius_graph.pointAlong(w).x
  p = Vector(x, -w)
  final_radius_graph.lineTo(p)
render(final_radius_graph.close_against_y_axis())
```

Next we transform this back into a circumference graph

```code
final_circumference_graph = Shape(
  [Vector(x = p.x * 2*math.pi, y=p.y) for p in final_radius_graph.points]
)

render(final_circumference_graph.close_against_y_axis())
```

Wow mad. Finally, lets subdivide this into 10 pattern pieces:

```code
pattern_piece = final_circumference_graph.close_against_y_axis().subdivide_by_width(10)
render(pattern_piece)
```

Now I just need to add some seam & hem allowances. While I'm at it, I'll make a pattern for the boning channel.

```code
from src.geometry.Shape import rectangle

boning = rectangle(pattern_piece.x_center() - 6, pattern_piece.bottom, 12, pattern_piece.height).with_label("12mm boning channel")

render(
  *sideBySide(
    Group(
      pattern_piece,
      pattern_piece.sides()[0].allowance(-20),
      pattern_piece.sides()[2].allowance(-20),
      pattern_piece.vertical_center_line(),
      *pattern_piece.numbered_corners()
    ),
    Group(
      boning,
      boning.allowance(-12)
    )
  )
)
```
